Astro best practice doc: managing dev deployments (#3398)
astronomer/docs: astro/best-practices/manage-dev-deployments.md

### Prerequisites

You will need:

- One [Astro Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/create-deployment) for production.
- One [Astro project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/develop-project) in a GitHub repository.

:::note

You can extend this example to encompass any number of Astro Deployments.

:::

### Implementation

1. Create a new development Deployment. Make sure **Development Mode** is enabled when you create the Deployment. See [Create a Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/create-deployment).
2. Create a hibernation schedule for your development Deployment. Choose a schedule that will not interfere with your typical development times. Note that you cannot deploy to a Deployment that is hibernating. See [Hibernate a development Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-resources#hibernate-a-development-deployment).
3. Configure branch-based deployment using the GitHub integration, mapping one branch of a GitHub repository to the development Deployment you created. See [Deploy code with the Astro GitHub integration](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-github-integration).

> ## Ephemeral feature Deployment example

Author: ```suggestion
## Ephemeral preview Deployment example
```

There are many strategies for organizing your code, CI/CD pipelines, and Deployments to support a sustainable development lifecycle on Astro, and no single setup will work for every team. However, there are a few frequently used methods for managing your development Deployments and promoting code from development to production when working on Astro:

1. Maintain a permanent development Deployment with a hibernation schedule that contains the code from a permanent `dev` branch of your project repository on GitHub or another version control platform.
2. Configure CI/CD workflows to create preview Deployments that map to feature branches in your repository that are deleted when the feature branch is merged into production. 

In this guide, we cover how to choose which method is best for your team and how to implement both using Astro features.

:::note

This guide does not provide detailed guidance on how to set up code repositories such as GitHub or how to configure CI/CD tools. Consult the documentation for your organization's tooling for specific and up-to-date guidance.

:::

## Feature overview

> This guide highlights when to use the following Astro features to manage your Deployments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide highlights how to use the following Astro features to manage your Deployments:
```

- Astro's [GitHub integration](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-github-integration).

> - [Hibernating development Deployments](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-resources#hibernate-a-development-deployment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Deployment hibernation](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-resources#hibernate-a-development-deployment).
```

> - Branch-based, including multi-branch, Deployments using [CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Multi-Deployment [CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments).
```

## Best practice guidance

> Maintaining [multiple environments](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments) for separate development and production versions of pipelines on Astro is a best practice. While there are many ways to do this, the two options covered in this guide, permanent dev Deployment with hibernation schedule or ephemeral preview Deployments mapped to feature branches, will work for most teams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a best practice to maintain [multiple environments](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments) for separate development and production versions of a data pipelione. While there are many ways to do this, the two options covered in this guide — permanent development Deployments and ephemeral preview Deployments mapped to feature branches — will work for most teams.
```

> In general, preview Deployments offer a better development experience. Since each feature branch maps to its own Astro Deployment, you don't have to worry about conflicts from other developers working on a development branch at the same time. If you have larger teams working on Astro or deploy changes frequently, this is a good option. However, managing development Deployments in this way requires more setup to ensure the Deployments have access to external systems, secrets, etc. and a more complex CI/CD implementation.  Your team should have experience with CI/CD to make this pattern successful. Finally, this option can come with less predictable costs, especially at higher scale with many feature Deployments that are spun up and down frequently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, preview (ephemeral) Deployments offer a better development experience. Since each feature branch maps to its own Astro Deployment, you don't have to worry about conflicts from other developers working on a development branch at the same time. If you have larger teams working on Astro or deploy changes frequently, this is a good option. However, managing Deployments in this way requires more setup to ensure the Deployments have access to external systems and resources, which in turn requires a more complex CI/CD implementation. Your team should have experience with CI/CD to make this pattern successful. Preview Deployments can also come with less predictable costs, especially at larger scale with many feature Deployments being regularly spun up and down.
```

> Permanent dev Deployments are easier to set up and manage. You only need to set up the environment once, and for GitHub users Astro's GitHub integration offers far simpler CI/CD implementation. In many cases, this pattern is also more cost-effective, as you can maintain one dev Deployment and use Astro's hibernation feature to reduce costs for the Deployment when you aren't using it. This option is often best for smaller teams, teams that deploy infrequently, and teams who are very cost conscious. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Permanent development Deployments are easier to set up and manage. You only need to set up the environment once, and Astro's GitHub integration offers far simpler CI/CD implementation for GitHub users. In many cases, this pattern is also more cost-effective, as you can maintain one development Deployment and use Astro's hibernation feature to reduce costs for the Deployment when you aren't using it. This option is often best for smaller teams, teams that deploy infrequently, and teams who are very cost conscious. 
```

:::tip

> [Hibernating development Deployments](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-resources#hibernate-a-development-deployment) reduce the cost of maintaining multiple permanent Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Hibernating development Deployments](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-resources#hibernate-a-development-deployment) reduces the cost of maintaining multiple permanent Deployments.
```
This is redundant to the previous paragraph right?

:::

## Hibernating development Deployment example

> This example shows you how to implement a permanent development Deployment with a hibernation schedule mapped to a permanent branch on GitHub. If your team does not use GitHub, you can also implement a branch-based hibernating development Deployment using [CI/CD workflows](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows you how to map a permanent branch on GitHub to a permanent development Deployment with a hibernation schedule. If your team doesn't use GitHub, you can also implement a branch-based hibernating development Deployment using [CI/CD templates](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd-templates/template-overview).
```

### Prerequisites

> 
> You will need:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

- One [Astro Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/create-deployment) for production.
- One [Astro project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/develop-project) in a GitHub repository.

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info
```

> You can extend this example to encompass any number of Astro Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can extend this example to encompass any number of Astro Deployments and development branches.
```

:::

### Implementation

1. Create a new development Deployment. Make sure **Development Mode** is enabled when you create the Deployment. See [Create a Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/create-deployment).
2. Create a hibernation schedule for your development Deployment. Choose a schedule that will not interfere with your typical development times. Note that you cannot deploy to a Deployment that is hibernating. See [Hibernate a development Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-resources#hibernate-a-development-deployment).
3. Configure branch-based deployment using the GitHub integration, mapping one branch of a GitHub repository to the development Deployment you created. See [Deploy code with the Astro GitHub integration](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-github-integration).

## Ephemeral preview Deployment example

> This example shows how to implement ephemeral Deployments for feature development that are created and destroyed by CI/CD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to implement ephemeral Deployments for feature development that are spun up and down by CI/CD.
```

### Prerequisites

> 
> For implementation, you need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- One [Astro Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/create-deployment) for production.
- A CI/CD tool such as GitHub Actions, Jenkins, or CircleCI.
- A version control tool such as GitHub or GitLab.
- One [Astro project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/develop-project) in a Git repository.
- [Deployment API tokens](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-api-tokens) to automate your code deploys.

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info
```

You can extend this example to encompass any number of Astro Deployments.

:::

### Implementation

1. Obtain an API token in the Astro UI. See [Create an API token](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/automation-authentication#step-1-create-an-api-token).
2. Install the Astro CLI in your CI/CD tool. See [Authenticate an automation tool to Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/automation-authentication#step-2-install-the-astro-cli-in-your-automation-tool).
3. Create a CI/CD pipeline using a [GitHub Actions template](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd-templates/github-actions-deployment-preview) or, if using a different CI/CD tool, [shell scripts](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd-templates/template-overview#preview-deployment-templates) that contain logic for managing preview Deployments based on branches. These workflows require at least an Astro Deployment name or ID and a branch name. See [Create a CI/CD pipeline](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#create-a-cicd-pipeline) and [Template options](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd-templates/template-overview#preview-deployment-templates).

:::tip

> Business-tier uses can add an additional layer of security by enforcing CI/CD for deploys rather than allowing manual deploys with the Astro CLI. See [Enforce CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#enforce-cicd).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Business-tier users can add an additional layer of security by enforcing CI/CD for deploys rather than allowing manual deploys with the Astro CLI. See [Enforce CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#enforce-cicd).
```

:::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3. Configure branch-based deployment using the GitHub integration, mapping one branch of a GitHub repository to the development Deployment you created. See [Deploy code with the Astro GitHub integration](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deploy-github-integration).

## Ephemeral feature Deployment example

This example shows how to implement ephemeral Deployments for feature development that are created and destroyed by CI/CD.

### Prerequisites

To implement this example, you need:

- One [Astro Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/create-deployment) for production.
- A CI/CD tool such as GitHub Actions, Jenkins, or CircleCI.
- A version control tool such as GitHub or GitLab.
- One [Astro project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/develop-project) in a Git repository.
- [Deployment API tokens](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-api-tokens) to automate your code deploys.

:::note

You can extend this example to encompass any number of Astro Deployments.

:::

### Implementation

> 1. Obtain an API token in the Astro UI and install the Astro CLI in your CI/CD tool. See [Authenticate an automation tool to Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/automation-authentication).

Author: Should obtain and API token and installing the Astro CLI in CI/CD tool be separate steps?

> 2. Choose a deployment strategy. We recommend multiple environments. See [Develop a CI/CD workflow for multiple environments](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments).

Author: ```suggestion
```
This doc is only talking about multiple environments since it's about managing dev deployments (and you would never only have dev) - so I think we can remove this step.

> 3. Create a CI/CD pipeline using a template. See [Create a CI/CD pipeline](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#create-a-cicd-pipeline).

Author: I think we need to add more guidance here on what should be in the CICD pipeline (i.e. it needs to have logic to manage ephemeral deployments based on branches.) We have that guidance (in the doc looks like we call them "preview deployments", which we should maybe make consistent in this one) here: https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/ci-cd-templates/template-overview#preview-deployment-templates

> 4. Enforce CI/CD to ensure a standardized and observable deployment process rather than allow manual deploys with the Astro CLI. See [Enforce CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#enforce-cicd).

Author: We should mention in this step why it's required for this use case (I guess if you deployed manually you might miss deleting the deployment when teh feature branch was merged? Is that what you were thinking?)

Reviewer 2: @kentdanas Changed this to a tip for Business-tier users and framed it as adding extra security.

> 5. Add testing to your pipeline. We recommend using [pytests](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#test-and-validate-dags-in-your-cicd-pipeline).

Author: ```suggestion
```
This is something everybody should do, but it's not really related to the contents of this guide, and not specific to this implementation compared to the other one.

There are many strategies for organizing your code, CI/CD pipelines, and Deployments to support a sustainable development lifecycle on Astro, and no single setup will work for every team. However, there are a few frequently used methods for managing your development Deployments and promoting code from development to production when working on Astro:

1. Maintain a permanent development Deployment with a hibernation schedule that contains the code from a permanent `dev` branch of your project repository.
2. Create ephemeral Deployments that map to feature branches in your repository, that are deleted when the feature branch is merged into production. 

In this guide, we cover how to choose which method is best for your team and how to implement both using Astro features.

## Feature overview

This guide highlights when to use the following Astro features to manage your Deployments:

- Branch-based, or multi-branch Deployments using [CI/CD](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments).
- [Hibernating development Deployments](https://domanagecs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-resources#hibernate-a-development-deployment).

> ## Best practice guidance

Author: A couple things for this section:
- Let's organize this section instead on situations where you should choose either a permanent and hibernating dev deployment vs ephemeral feature-based dev deployments. 
- Having a single environment is probably uncommon (and I would argue not really best practice), and it wouldn't fit into either of the "dev deployment" strategies we're mentioning here since in that case you wouldn't have a dev deployment at all. I think what Paola was talking about last week was "a single dev deployment", which would be more relevant if you can use the same dev deployment for all members of your team (in this case individuals might have their own sandbox deployments).
- I'm going to ask in slack about when you would choose each one and we can incorporate that feedback here.

Author: @merobi-hub now that we've gotten more feedback here, I'm actually going to revise my previous statement that we should have a section for each method. Many of the advantages you list here actually apply to both methods, and we don't need to present that guidance in this doc. I think we can remove those, and have one short section with a couple paragraphs, since the best practice guidance here is pretty straightforward: ephemeral deployments are a better dev experience and should be preferred by larger teams and teams that deploy changes frequently; hibernating permanent deployments are easier to set up and manager and are likely more cost effective, but run the risk of developer conflicts, and should therefore be preferred by smaller teams, or teams that are more cost conscious. 

Sorry for the change-around here. Let me know if this makes sense.

:::tip

[Hibernating development Deployments](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/deployment-resources#hibernate-a-development-deployment) reduces the cost of maintaining multiple permanent Deployments.

:::

### A hybrid approach

Some teams might prefer some combination of the above. For example, some teams might prefer to use ephemeral Deployments for production code rather than maintain a permanent production Deployment. Other teams might choose to maintain permanent sandbox Deployments in addition to development and production Deployments.

## Hibernating development Deployment example

> This example shows how to implement a permanent development Deployment with a hibernation schedule and a CI/CD pipeline to promote code from development to production.

Author: This is the one we should update to use the GH integration by default (since GH integration doesn't support ephemeral deployments yet). So let's add that to the prereqs and update step 3. We can add a note that if they don't use GH, they can implement their own CICD workflow and link to the docs.

3. Implement a branch-based CI/CD pipeline. Your pipeline should deploy the `dev` branch of your project repository to the development Deployment you created on a push to that branch, and deploy the `main` branch of your repository to your production Deployment on a merge to that branch. See [Develop a CI/CD workflow for multiple environments](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/set-up-ci-cd#multiple-environments).

## Ephemeral feature Deployment example

This example shows how to implement ephemeral Deployments for feature development that are created and destroyed by CI/CD.

### Prerequisites

To implement this example, you need:

- One [Astro Deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/create-deployment) for production.
- A CI/CD tool.
- One [Astro project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/develop-project) in a git repository.

However, you can extend this example to encompass any number of Astro Deployments.

### Implementation

> To implement this example:

Author: Fill out the implementation here?
